.
- Previously on "Shooter"...
- He missed.
He killed
the Ukrainian president.
- We can hold a press conference
and we can tell--
- Honey, they will kill you.
They'll kill Mary.
- What about you?
- I'm gonna focus on finding
the actual shooter.
- He knows we were targeting
the Ukrainian.
- So what?
- Congratulations.
We got him.
- Bob Lee faked his death.
He had to to get the cops
and the Feds off his back.
- Did Voydian have
any connection at all
to Bob Lee Swagger?
- Swagger was the lone gunman.
- How much of this is bullshit?
- Can you just let it go?
This alcohol will kill you
very pleasantly.
[grunting and shouting]
- Shoot him!
I need you alive as an asset
inside the government.
So, are we partners?
[heavy breathing]
- [exclaims]
- Sorry. Sorry, baby.
- It's okay.
It's okay.
[moaning and heavy breathing]
- [sighs]
[giggles]
- Did you set up the email?
- Mm-hmm.
Just like you asked.
[groans]
Password's "kittenmouse."
- Baby, I'm so sorry about
all this cloak and dagger stuff.
Involving you,
putting you at risk...
I hate it.
- No, no, no, no, no.
You don't get to say that.
[whispering]
I'm glad I got to see you.
I am afraid to ask you
what you're gonna do next.
- I'm going back
to where it happened.
- The Science Center?
Why?
- I've got to find the bullet.
- They have the bullet.
- They have
the one they planted.
- You don't think
they have both?
- It was a big area.
There was lots of media
and police and crowds...
it was chaos.
- Don't you think Isaac already
had his people search the area?
- It's a long shot,
but I got to try,
gotta get down there
and reconstruct the shot.
- How?
- The bullet came
from the boathouse.
If the Science Center is
at 12:00,
the Ukrainian president was
struck in the head
around 10:00.
- But a bullet going
through bone and tissue--
it could be anywhere.
- Not anywhere.
The Lapua Magnum is
a 250-grain load.
At 1,580 yards, it would drop
roughly 380 inches
from its initial path.
That means that it was
traveling downward.
With all the mayhem, they may
not have been able to find it.
Anyway, I got to try.
- Just please remember,
you're supposed to be dead.
- I know.
I'll be careful.
[tense music]
*
- How many secret hideouts
do you have?
- It's a secret.
- You're such a shit.
- Baby,
remember where this place is,
but don't write it down.
And never bring your phone.
- You know the world thinks
you're dead, right?
- Yeah, and I want to keep it
that way as long as possible.
- Do you remember
when you were active...
every time you'd deploy, we'd
always say good-bye so casually,
like you were just going
to the store to get ice cream.
I always wondered
if it made a difference.
'Cause whenever you got on
that plane, I'd cry my eyes out.
- It made a difference.
- Okay,
then bye.
[dramatic music]
.
- I need all the Dimitri Voydian
files pulled,
all his last-known associates
and any documented
meeting places.
Okay.
Thanks.
- All right,
let's get back to work.
[phone buzzing]
[dramatic music]
[bell ringing]
*
[knocking on door]
[football playing on TV]
- What's the password?
- You missed Swagger again.
- Help yourself
to some room service.
- How much does Memphis know?
- She's got bits and pieces.
- And now she has me.
- Is there anything
I can help you with, Johnson?
I got work to do.
- What work?
- Sorry. Need to know
and all that.
- I need to know.
- Meachum wants
any loose ends sewn up.
Wet work.
Not for you.
- Need the fluid.
We need those specific parts,
because we've been working
on this for a while.
And that's what you said
last week.
I know.
Yeah.
It's Evan.
Okay. Thank you.
[Evan continues speaking
indistinctly]
*
[drill whirs]
[horns honk]
- Yo!
I got to get in there.
Evan said this was a rush job.
Back up.
[lift whirs]
*
- Let me call you back.
What are you talking about?
[whirring]
*
Hey!
Hey, you, working on 916.
What are you doing?
- I don't know, man. Looks
like a full brake job to me.
These rotors are shot.
How do they put these things
on the road in this condition?
- Who told you it was
a full brake job?
- The paperwork.
- What paperwork?
Hey, there's nothing on here
that says anything about that.
- The one up front.
The paperwork up front.
Oh, you should see the ones
on this side.
These are a mess.
- Where'd you--
- Check out this front left.
- Where did you come from,
anyway?
- From dispatch.
- Dispatch, huh?
- Yeah. You should see
these ones up front.
They are a mess.
Never had this problem
with the old cruisers.
- I heard nothing
about dispatch. Nothing.
Who are you?
- Oh, you got a Freon leak too.
- Freon leak?
Hey!
Get back here!
Get him.
Hey!
[gunshot]
[reloads]
*
- What's this?
- That's the bullet that killed
the Ukrainian president.
The real bullet.
- Right, your text from earlier.
Seattle PD cruiser 916.
This bullet looks undamaged.
- Hardened polymer.
I put it
into a steel water tank,
and there's not even a scratch.
That's master armorer work.
And it's illegal.
Got any connections at the ATF?
- [sighs]
I hope this leads somewhere,
'cause it took me three months
to get rid of this guy.
- So you're a heartbreaker?
- [scoffs]
*
That's--that's very sweet.
Thanks.
Of course. Yeah.
As soon as I get in the office.
Okay. Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Hey, you know what--
okay, thanks, David.
Talk soon.
[sighs]
I think I just got engaged.
He says they've just started
tracking bullets like these.
He thinks they're coming
out of a Second Amendment outfit
called The Tree of Liberty,
but there's no proof.
- You got anything on them?
- Militia group.
Ex-military and well armed.
They have a campsite
outside of Spokane.
ATF just started
drone surveillance,
trying to build their case.
But everyone's afraid
of another Waco,
so they keep their distance.
- All right, well, dig up
any information you can.
I got to talk to them.
What's your boy's name?
- David Hall.
- All right, text me his number.
I might need it.
- I mean, I just said there are
drones in that airspace.
- If those bullets are coming
out of there, I need to get in.
.
- Aside from the damage
to the cruiser,
I couldn't figure out what he
was digging into.
- All right.
Well, you did the right thing.
I'll take all the information
back to Homeland,
but there's nothing
to worry about.
- You know,
I'd swear on my mother's life
that was Bob Lee Swagger.
- Didn't you say
he stole some tools?
Probably just a junkie looking
to sell them to get high.
Swagger's been
in the news a lot.
The mind plays tricks.
- Hey, thanks.
- All right.
[dramatic music]
*
- What are we doing here?
- I'm tracking down
all of Dimitri Voydian's
connections.
That's odd. A restaurant
that's closed for lunch?
- I think we've got blood.
Ready?
*
Who do you think did this?
- Let's wrap this up quickly.
I don't need Herring
riding my ass again today.
- I read the report
about Dimitri Voydian's guys.
Sounds like a bloodbath.
- Well, you know the Bratva.
They like to sign their work.
- I head Agent Memphis was
first at the scene.
How'd she take it?
- I think she's losing it.
Here's another insert for Simon.
This morning it was
dead Russians
and some big conspiracy,
and now she's got a hard-on
for the Tree of Liberty Militia.
- Those clowns in Spokane?
What do they have to do
with this?
- Who knows? But she did
access all of their files.
I wouldn't worry about it.
Tomorrow she'll say
my grandmother took the shot.
*
[unintelligible chatter]
- Good afternoon.
- That sign at the road says
"private property."
Can't you read?
- If you guys are looking
to keep people out,
your perimeter's weak.
- Damn dog.
Take off that hat.
- Do it!
- Ain't gonna ask you again.
- All right.
- Holy shit,
we got us a dead man.
- I heard about your cause.
I thought I might find
some friendly faces.
- What did you hear
about our cause?
- That some good men decided
to let the government know
we're not all sheep.
- That's right!
- I can see I was right.
- Joey, back up before he takes
your rifle from you.
You can show them
a hundred times how it's done,
and as soon as it gets real,
it all goes to shit.
Ain't that right, Swagger?
[chuckles]
Welcome to the Tree of Liberty.
You're home.
At ease, boys.
- Guys, I'm not here
for trouble, and I'm unarmed.
- We'll have to change that,
won't we?
- Nothing quite like
old American iron.
- We were taking bets
you faked your death.
Smart play.
- Yeah, it's kind of hard
to make moves
when you've got the Feds
all over you.
- I'm glad you found
your way here.
Real honor to have
Bob Lee Swagger with us.
- How do we even know
he is the real Swagger?
Could be a look-alike the Feds
are using as a plant against us.
- Sorry about
my little brother here.
He loves his conspiracies.
- Hey, it's not wrong
to be suspicious.
[cheers and applause]
- [chuckles]
You're Bob Lee Swagger,
all right.
Damn, you can shoot.
- If you're so great, how come
you missed the president?
- 'Cause I didn't take
that shot.
I was framed.
The real assassin used
this bullet.
- Ward, Kyle, please escort
our friend here to the rec room.
Keep him there.
I respect you, Swagger,
but if you're looking
to screw us,
you will regret it.
[tense music]
*
- I got it.
- You think I can't handle
my own duty bag?
- Maybe I'm just being
a gentleman.
- Oh, thanks, Mikey.
[scoffs]
- Guess who's getting married
today?
[suspenseful music]
*
- I don't know, Payne.
One of your ex-boyfriends
from prison?
- Cassie's sister, Angela.
You remember Cassie.
She was the hostage
that you killed.
- Is this your version
of psy-ops?
You suck at it.
- "Dear Cass,
"I don't have a maid of honor
for my wedding
because I'm honoring
your memory."
She says "honor" twice,
but you get the idea.
- It was an accident,
and I made my peace with it.
I made my peace with her family.
What about you, Payne?
Think you'll ever make yours?
- Why would I need
to make peace?
- How about a restaurant
full of dead Russians?
- You got the rose?
And you didn't even say
anything?
- What's your deal, Payne?
You sweet on me?
You think I'm the one
who got away..
literally?
- Do you think you'll cry
at Swagger's funeral?
I-I don't think so.
But you might
at his wife and daughter's.
[phone buzzing]
*
- [grunts]
Got you, asshole.
- What the hell, Memphis?
.
- So, how, exactly,
did you come by this bullet?
- That bullet unties my noose.
I need to know
who you sold it to.
- I got some bad news for you,
Marine.
You gave us quite a scare.
I thought we had
a breach of security.
But that bullet that you brought
didn't come from us.
- Where do you get these?
- We make them ourselves.
The ATF knows about the bullets
sold in stores.
What we needed was
a new kind of round,
one that they wouldn't be able
to predict.
- Don't tell him
what we're working on.
- Joey, I'm running things.
Not you.
Is that clear?
Bob Lee is not a threat.
He's spilled more blood
for freedom than you ever will.
- My kid brother here's
got a messed up eye.
Can't shoot worth his shit.
But he's a wizard
with the Internet.
Runs our message boards for us
and keeps in touch
with the brothers and sisters
that can't make it here.
- You guys got
a lot of followers?
- We're going to soon.
- And then what's the plan?
- Guerilla warfare.
Federal government's been
closing in on Americans
like a vice--
every year a little bit more.
Somebody has got to stand up.
Second Amendment calls
for a well-armed militia,
and that's us.
- If they think they can create
a One World Government,
they're gonna have
another thing coming.
- Yeah, but where do you get
the materials, though?
This can't be store-bought.
- We got a guy that makes
that stuff for us.
Crazy old kook up in Idaho.
But he supports the cause.
- What's his name?
- Ah, sorry, Swagger.
Operational security.
That polymer supply is
too valuable to lose.
- Understood.
- All right, then.
You're welcome to stay
as long as you want.
We could use another long gun.
Joey here, he'll set you up.
You're safe with us, Swagger.
[dramatic music]
*
[gunshot]
[blues guitar music]
[reloading gun]
*
[gunshot]
[gun reloads]
*
[gunshot]
- All right. You've got
to stabilize the rifle.
Tuck the stock
into your shoulder.
Now use your non-shooting hand
to hold it tight.
You want the rifle to feel
like it's part of you.
After that, it's all about
your breathing.
Block out everything else.
Focus on the cross hairs
and the target.
Now at the very end
of your exhale, you hold,
then gently pull the trigger.
All right.
Range is hot.
Send it.
[shell clinks]
[gun reloads]
[James laughs]
[gunshot]
- Man, I told you
he couldn't shoot for shit.
- His technique is good.
He just needs time.
Great shooters are at the range
every day.
It's practice, not instinct.
- Time ain't gonna help.
Every person plays their part.
Joey's here ain't behind a gun.
- Hey, you forgot
to secure your weapon.
- When are you leaving?
We got shit to do,
and you're not a part of it.
- Don't worry.
I'm leaving.
Whatever you're planning,
it's not my business,
but I just don't see an endgame.
- When free men realize that
they have a place in this world,
they'll come.
- And then what?
- If the Tree of Liberty gets
big enough,
they'll have to listen.
Good men have been laying down
for too long.
It's time to stand up.
- How old are you, Joey?
- 17. Why?
- You go to high school?
- Shit. It's just another form
of indoctrination.
- It's also a pretty good place
to meet girls.
Listen, man.
All I'm saying is,
there's a lot more life
out there.
- My brother needs me.
- Family's important.
I get it.
But don't get so caught up
in your brother's story
that you lose your own.
All right, I'm gonna
hit the head and split.
Which way is it?
- Makeshift latrine's
two buildings over.
[suspenseful music]
*
- Shit.
[phone ringing]
- Agent Hall, ATF.
- Hey, man, you know
those Tree of Liberty guys?
They're planning something big.
- Who is this?
- I used to believe
in James Richards, man,
but I don't know--they got
a van full of explosives, dude.
This ain't
what the Tree's about.
- Sir, I'm gonna need
your name and location.
Hello?
[sighs]
Hey. How soon can we get
a surveillance team together?
*
- Where you been, Swagger?
- Isn't the bathroom back there?
- You think we're stupid?
I know you saw what we've got.
- Okay, man,
whatever you guys are planning,
I'm sure you got good reason
for it.
But it's got nothing to do
with me.
So I'm just gonna push on.
- You can't win a war
that hasn't started.
People need to wake the hell up,
and we're gonna wake them.
- Joey, we got a situation.
You got eyes on Swagger?
- God damn right, I do.
What's the matter?
- Bring him to the armory.
I caught him outside
with a rifle in his gear.
He's a Fed.
You know him?
- Yep.
He's been hunting me
since I escaped from prison.
Thought I lost him
when I faked my death.
- It's like I've been
telling you.
I only came here
to arrest Bob Lee.
The rest of you guys aren't
my concern.
- Shut up, redcoat.
- Don't you see?
Swagger cut some kind of deal.
We take him in,
he gets the lay of the land,
then calls the Feds.
I just caught him snooping
in the garage.
He saw everything.
- So, what, is that your play,
Swagger?
- Let me ask you a question.
Was he alone?
You ever see a Fed operating
like that?
Those boys can't take a shit
without getting three approvals.
And I don't know
what this asshole's up to,
but if he were legit,
he wouldn't be out here alone.
My guess is he's trying
to be a hero.
- Look,
we can negotiate a solu--
[grunts]
- What did I say about talking?
You know what?
It's time to water the tree.
- I got a better idea.
Why don't we have a little fun?
Could walk him down range
and have some target practice.
*
- All right.
Sounds good to me.
Let's paint a bull's-eye on him.
At 800 yards.
- Nah, 800's too easy.
.
- Payne's getting bolder.
I can't protect you.
The FBI thinks Bob Lee's dead.
There's no threat to you,
according to
the official narrative.
- But according
to your narrative?
- You heard
about the Russian killings?
- Yeah.
- When Bob Lee survived,
it was great for you,
but bad for everyone
who set him up.
Now a lot of nervous people are
trying to clean up their mess,
and you and Mary are
part of that.
- And this guy works for
the people who did it to us?
- Yes.
And I think it's best
that I put you guys in the wind
for a while.
- You live with a sniper
long enough,
you learn a few things.
Can't take any shots
with your back turned.
So, why don't we put Payne
in the wind?
See how he likes it.
- Julie?
Julie, hold on.
- [whistles]
- We're rolling.
Get her on. Get her on.
Mrs. Swagger,
do you still believe
your husband was innocent?
- Bob Lee didn't do any of this.
He's not some crazy assassin,
and he didn't try to kill
the president.
And before you write me off
as some crazy wife
who's in denial,
I would ask that you would
review the same files
the FBI is reviewing right now.
- Who is that? Does the FBI
have another suspect?
- His name is Jack Payne,
and the FBI believe that
he could be the actual assassin.
So if any of you have
any information
about him or his whereabouts,
I encourage you
to please report them
to Special Agent Nadine Memphis.
She's available
for your questions.
- Agent Memphis, is the FBI
pursuing alternate theories
about the assassination?
Can you tell us anything?
- Um...
the FBI will not comment
on any ongoing investigation...
[stammers]
At this time.
- So the investigation is
still open?
- No comment.
[dramatic music]
*
[unintelligible chatter]
- Let's get this thing
in the air as soon as possible.
- You gonna tease this out?
- Maybe I'm tired.
Maybe my hip hurts.
Maybe I just like
seeing you suffer.
- You're not really gonna
go through with this.
- You crawled out here alone
in a ghillie suit
with a suppressed weapon.
You expect me to believe
you're on a rescue mission?
We deal in lead.
Grow up.
- [grunts]
You know, I always thought
I'd die in a gun fight.
- You were half right.
In another world, I would've
shot you the minute I saw you.
But these guys have
a van-load of bad shit,
and they're planning
on using it.
I can't let that happen.
- So why don't you untie me
and let me help?
- Oh, sorry, Captain.
Call me crazy,
but I don't trust you.
Hopefully Richards isn't as good
a shot as he thinks he is,
but I've been wrong
about people before.
All right.
Let's do this.
*
- You ready,
or you need some time
to catch your breath
from that little walk?
- I'm good, Joey.
- On scope, range is exactly
1,625 yards.
[James humming]
- You Navy boys
always could hum.
[gunshot]
Damn it! Should've accounted
for a half-factor wind.
- Seems like a rookie mistake
for a sniper of your caliber.
- We've got picture.
- 10 to 12 structures.
I count one, two--
five areas obscured by cover
large enough to store
ammonium nitrate
or other explosives.
See a van?
- No, sir.
Just this group of three males
shooting long arms.
- Get in closer.
See if we can ID them.
- Watch how the Navy does it,
Jarhead.
[man chuckling]
[gun reloads]
- I bet you 500 you don't get
any closer than I did,
even with your fancy bullet.
- [laughs]
All right. You're on.
But I don't want to hear
any whining about the bullet
after I plug this piece of shit.
[gunshot]
- Damn it.
- Just short.
- Next one won't be.
- Hey, that asshole came
out here to erase me.
At least give me the chance
to return the favor.
- All right.
Fine.
But don't miss.
*
- What the hell
are you waiting for?
- I'm not waiting.
We've got company.
[gunshot]
- Sir, we lost picture.
[rock scraping]
[grunting]
- Interference?
- No, sir. Shot down.
- All right. We're hot.
Let's go. We're moving out.
[rock scraping]
- Joey, everything's fine.
You know what to do.
We've been compromised.
Everybody to your positions.
- Come on, man,
we're on the same side.
- Oh, is that right?
I've seen you shoot, Swagger,
and you don't miss,
even from a mile.
I'm thinking maybe my brother
was right about you.
- Your brother's about to make
a terrible mistake.
- My brother's about to go down
in history, just like you.
I don't get it, Swagger.
I welcomed you with open arms.
The Tree of Liberty--
[grunting]
- What are you doing, man?
The ATF is closing in.
You should get your people
out of here.
- I refuse to die at the hands
of a bureaucrat,
and so should you.
[men shouting]
[gunfire]
*
[gunshot]
- Come on. Get out. Get out!
- Let me finish it!
- It was finished the day
your brother filled this van.
Stay low.
I'll put down cover fire.
You'd better get the hell
out of here.
- Are you letting me go?
Where's my brother?
*
Did you kill him?
- I let him go. He said
you'd know where to meet him.
- O'Brien.
That's the name of the guy
who sold us the polymer.
He had a weird first name.
- Rathford?
- Yeah.
You know him?
- All right. Head south.
Find the river.
Get on the outer banks,
and keep going
till you get to Kingston,
okay?
Go!
[gunshots]
.
- [moaning]
[phone ringing]
Hello?
- I'm out.
He got away.
Do you have any idea
where Payne is right now?
- I heard he and Swagger are
having pancakes at IHOP.
Why don't you meet them?
[laughs]
Oh, by the way,
I hope you like the rain.
You're on special assignment
at Homeland's
Northwest Regional Office.
Before you can argue,
it's already done.
You're with me
until this is over.
- It is over. This thing
just blew up in our faces.
- Kid,
it hasn't
even gotten bad yet.
- His name is Jack Payne.
The FBI believes he could be
the actual assassin,
and if any of you
have any information
about this man
or his whereabouts,
I encourage you to
please report it
to special agent
Nadine Memphis.
- Agent Memphis,
is the FBI pursuing
alternate theories
about the assassination?
Can you tell us anything?
- Can I have the room?
Homeland, CIA, DIA,
and every other three-letter
agency in the DC area
is asking questions
about your conspiracy.
Congratulations, Memphis.
Not only have you embarrassed
yourself,
you've embarrassed
this entire bureau.
- I had no idea she was gonna
react that way.
- You disclosed information
about an ongoing investigation.
- You're right, but I know
I'm on the right side of this.
Getting more agencies and the
press to start an investigation
is gonna help us solve
this case.
- This case is solved.
This case was solved
when Swagger blew himself up.
I was the last friend you had
in this building.
[Sevdaliza's "The Valley"]
*
- * Mama said
baby don't cry *
* You'd better dress up
and be a big girl *
* Mama I'm scared of
livin' livin' livin' *
* Is Daddy gonna drive us
up the hill? *
- Hey, Nadine.
- * Daddy done lost his mind
- I heard you wanted to see me.
* Heaven or hell
it's the same *
* Fire in the burning eyes
* Big boys cry without
the shame the shame the shame *
*
[dramatic music]